Study design (description data collection)
============

The data came from the "Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset" 
generated by Smartlab - Non Linear Complex Systems Laboratory, www.smartlab.ws.

The zip file obtained was https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip
The data was downloaded on 6/12/2015 at 5:54 PM PDT.  The data was unzipped on a Windows PC.

Information on the original data can be found in the zip file's UCI HAR Dataset/README.txt file. 
The collection of that data and its transformation into the files in the zip file is explained 
in README.txt file with additional information in features_info.txt.

Tidy data set (original data -> tidy data)
=============

This project took the data from zip file and created a tidy data set from it. 

The tidy data set created was based on the instructions for the "Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project".
The instructions for this progect are below:
    You should create one R script called run_analysis.R that does the following:

        1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set.
        2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
        3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
        4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names. 
        5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each 
           variable for each activity and each subject.

The creation of the tidy data set was done by the run_analysis.R script. See the README.md file for 
information about running the script to produce the tidy data set from the original data.


Data Transformation Choices
===========================

Mean & Standard Deviation column choices
----------------------------------------

Step 2 of the instructions indicate that the mean and standard deviation should be selected for each measurement.
The original data's file features_info.txt states:
    The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 
      mean(): Mean value
      std(): Standard deviation
      ...
Thus, in step 2, the column variables that contain "mean(" and "std(" are selected.

Form of data wide vs long
------------------------

The original data's X_train.txt and X_test.txt files are wide data.  

Through most of run_analysis.R, the wide format of the data is used.
Only in step 5 is the data translated into the long form, prior to grouping
and calculating the means.
The final output, tidy_data2.txt, is in long form. With the 
The goal of the project (to produce a tidy data set to be used for later analysis), 
the benifit of wide or long form would depend on the type of analysis.
Based on the data, the long form seemed more likely to be benificial for 
subsequent analysis.


Code book (describes each variable)
=========

The variables (columns) in the tidy_data2.txt file are:
  "subject"       - the subject number (1 -30)
  "activity"      - the activity the done:
                       "Walking"
                       "Walking Upstairs"
                       "Walking Downstairs"
                       "Sitting"
                       "Standing"
                       "Laying"
  "variable"      - the variable being reported (see below)
  "mean(value)"   - the mean value of all the records in the original dataset for
                    the subject/activity,variable

values for "variable" column:
----------------------------
"tBodyAcc-mean()-X"
"tBodyAcc-mean()-Y"
"tBodyAcc-mean()-Z"
"tBodyAcc-std()-X"
"tBodyAcc-std()-Y"
"tBodyAcc-std()-Z"
"tGravityAcc-mean()-X"
"tGravityAcc-mean()-Y"
"tGravityAcc-mean()-Z"
"tGravityAcc-std()-X"
"tGravityAcc-std()-Y"
"tGravityAcc-std()-Z"
"tBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"
"tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"
"tBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"
"tBodyAccJerk-std()-X"
"tBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"
"tBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"
"tBodyGyro-mean()-X"
"tBodyGyro-mean()-Y"
"tBodyGyro-mean()-Z"
"tBodyGyro-std()-X"
"tBodyGyro-std()-Y"
"tBodyGyro-std()-Z"
"tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-X"
"tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Y"
"tBodyGyroJerk-mean()-Z"
"tBodyGyroJerk-std()-X"
"tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Y"
"tBodyGyroJerk-std()-Z"
"tBodyAccMag-mean()"
"tBodyAccMag-std()"
"tGravityAccMag-mean()"
"tGravityAccMag-std()"
"tBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"
"tBodyAccJerkMag-std()"
"tBodyGyroMag-mean()"
"tBodyGyroMag-std()"
"tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"
"tBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"
"fBodyAcc-mean()-X"
"fBodyAcc-mean()-Y"
"fBodyAcc-mean()-Z"
"fBodyAcc-std()-X"
"fBodyAcc-std()-Y"
"fBodyAcc-std()-Z"
"fBodyAccJerk-mean()-X"
"fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Y"
"fBodyAccJerk-mean()-Z"
"fBodyAccJerk-std()-X"
"fBodyAccJerk-std()-Y"
"fBodyAccJerk-std()-Z"
"fBodyGyro-mean()-X"
"fBodyGyro-mean()-Y"
"fBodyGyro-mean()-Z"
"fBodyGyro-std()-X"
"fBodyGyro-std()-Y"
"fBodyGyro-std()-Z"
"fBodyAccMag-mean()"
"fBodyAccMag-std()"
"fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean()"
"fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std()"
"fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean()"
"fBodyBodyGyroMag-std()"
"fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean()"
"fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std()"
